# Volatility Spillovers in Major Oil Markets - A DCC-MGARCH Approach

&copy; Skye Zhang 2020. All rights reserved.

## Introduction

Over the past decades, crude oil has become the biggest traded commodity
in the world. In the crude oil market, oil is sold under a variety of
contracts and in spot transactions. Crude oil is usually sold close to
the point of production, and is transferred as the oil flows from the
loading terminal to the ship FOB (free on board). Thus, spot prices are
quoted for immediate delivery of crude oil as FOB prices.

Prior to the 21st century, there are three major benchmarks in the
global oil market: (1) West Texas Intermediate (WTI), the reference
crude for USA; (2) Brent, the reference crude oil for the North Sea; (3)
Dubai, the benchmark crude oil for the Middle East and Far East. In
recent years, the East Siberian Pacific Ocean (ESPO) price, the
reference crude for Russia, has become an emerging benchmark for the
Asia-Pacific region. Although crude oil is traded independently in these
markets, prices of different markets are tightly correlated, affected by
geopolitical and economic policies.

As spot prices change dynamically, their volatility is typically
unobservable, yet volatility spillovers appear to be widespread in
financial markets. Studies show that the spillover effects hold even
when markets do not necessarily trade at the same time. Consequently, a
volatility spillover occurs when changes in volatility in one market
produce a lagged impact on volatility in other markets, over and above
local effects. Volatility spillovers and asymmetries among those four
major benchmarks are likely to be important for not only constructing
hedge ratios and optimal portfolios, but also supporting policy makers
with rigorous econometric suggestions.

This project focus mainly on the volatility spillover
effects across the traditional crude oil benchmarks (WTI, Brent, and
Dubai spot prices), and the ESPO price. Although previous papers have
extensively studied the spillovers among the traditional market, this
research adds inputs of an emerging market under Russia's ambitious oil
policies. It helps oil firms, investors, policy makers understand the
dynamics of crude oil price among different macroeconomic and
geopolitical environments.

